readded everything (#104)
MrLongbottom/P10-Article: sections/preliminaries.tex

\section{Preliminaries}\label{sec:preliminaries}

> This section covers previous work within topic modelling that will be expanded upon in this paper.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here we present the foundation for the two models that we are adapting in this paper.
```

> 

Author: ```suggestion
These are all \gls{um}, meaning that topics are only word distributions and are chosen based on the data of the documents, rather than \glspl{dm} where topics are fitted to have an influence on both word distributions and other metadata

```

> \subsection{\acrlong{lda}}

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
\subsection{\Acrlong{lda}}
```

The purpose of \gls{lda}, and topic models in general, is to create a tool for exploring collections of text.
Topic models do this by uncovering the underlying semantic structure of a text collection by using hierarchical Bayesian models.
\Gls{lda} uncovers this semantic structure by discovering patterns of word use in documents and finding topics based on these~\cite{blei2009topic}.

> The standard \gls{lda} by \citet{blei2003latent} can be described by the following generative process, which is the way the model assumes the documents arose:

Author: we dont actually begin with the generative process when we say we do, we just explain variables

$D$ is the number of documents in the corpus, $N_d$ is the number of words in document $d$, $V$ is the size of the vocabulary, and $K$ is the number of topics.

> Topics are represented as distributions over words and documents are represented as distributions of topics.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Topics are represented as distributions over words and documents are represented as distributions over topics.
```

For each topic $k \in \{1,\dots, K\}$ a topic-word distribution $\beta_k$ is sampled from a V-dimensional Dirichlet distribution parameterized by $\eta$.
That is, K topics $\beta_{1:k}$ are sampled, each being a distribution over the vocabulary, written as: $\beta_k \sim Dirichlet(\eta)$.
Likewise, for each document $d \in \{1,\dots, D\}$ a document-topic distribution $\theta_d$ is sampled from a K-dimensional Dirichlet distribution parameterized by $\alpha$.
For each word $n \in \{1, \dots, N_d\}$ in each document $d$, a topic $z_{d,n}$ is sampled from a K-multinomial distribution $\theta_d$, and then a word $w_{d,n}$ is sampled from a V-multinomial distribution $\beta_{z_{d,n}}$.
The generative process for each document is seen in these steps:

\vspace{\topsep}
\begin{enumerate}
	\item Draw topic proportion $\theta_d \sim Dirichlet(\alpha)$
	\item For each word $n$ in the document:
	\begin{enumerate}
		\item Draw topic assignment $z_{d,n} \sim Mult(\theta_d)$
		\item Draw word $w_{d,n} \sim Mult(\beta_{z_{d,n}})$
	\end{enumerate}
\end{enumerate}
\vspace{\topsep}

> The generative process for topics and documents, generates a list of $K$ topics and $D$ documents that can be used as a $K \times V$ matrix of topic-word distributions and a $D \times K$ matrix of document-topic distributions, respectively.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The generative process for topics and documents generates a list of $K$ topics and $D$ topic distributions that can be used as a $K \times V$ matrix of topic-word distributions and a $D \times K$ matrix of document-topic distributions, respectively.
```
Ellers tænkte jeg også at sætningen måske bare kunne fjernes

> The generative process for topics and documents, generates a list of $K$ topics and $D$ documents that can be used as a $K \times V$ matrix of topic-word distributions and a $D \times K$ matrix of document-topic distributions, respectively.

Author: ```suggestion
The result is $K$ topics, based on $D$ documents.
These topics are represented by a $K \times V$ matrix of topic-word distributions and a $D \times K$ matrix of document-topic distributions.
```

The plate notation for \gls{lda} can be seen in \autoref{fig:standard_lda}.

\input{figures/lda_plate}

After training the \gls{lda} model, there are multiple possibilities for exploring the corpus using the posterior distributions of the hidden random variables.
One possibility is to visualize the posterior topics of the model, e.g., by sorting $\beta_k$ according to the highest probabilities. \vejleder{gerne mere præcist}
It is also possible to visualize the documents by, e.g., sorting by the highest topic proportions in $\theta_d$.

> Another possibility of exploration is finding similar documents by using a distribution distance function on the topic proportions $\theta_d$ between documents~\cite{blei2009topic}.

Reviewer 2: Hvis vi stadig mangler at fjerne dele for at nå ned på 8 sider, er denne del nok mindre vigtig.

Reviewer: Det bliver meget another another and another

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> \subsection{Author-Topic \gls{lda}}\label{subsec:auth_prelim} \vejleder{introducer modellen som den er i \cite{author_topic_2012}, gerne flere detaljer}

Author: this section is very small. Maybe we should also go over generative process, etc. unless we want it to be small

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
\subsection{Author-Topic \gls{lda}}\label{subsec:auth_prelim} \vejleder{introducer modellen som den er i \cite{author_topic_2012}, gerne flere detaljer}
\todo[inline]{Beskriv den generative process}
```

\citet{author_topic_2012} present the Author-Topic model.
It seeks to find topics based on author metadata, and is based on the assumption that authors prefer to write about specific topics.
In this model, there are no document-topic distributions $\theta$, but rather one author-topic distribution for each author.

> This is a \gls{um}, meaning that topics are only word distributions and are chosen based on the data of the documents, rather than \glspl{dm} where topics are fitted to have an influence on both word distributions and other metadata. \todo{har vi lyst til at skulle beskrive upstream og downstream for alle modeller? }

Author: this sentence applies to all the model and could be moved to the top of this section if we want to keep it.

Author: har lavet et forslag i toppen.
```suggestion
```

> This is a \gls{um}, meaning that topics are only word distributions and are chosen based on the data of the documents, rather than \glspl{dm} where topics are fitted to have an influence on both word distributions and other metadata. \todo{har vi lyst til at skulle beskrive upstream og downstream for alle modeller? }

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This is an \gls{um}, meaning that topics are only word distributions and are chosen based on the data of the documents, rather than \glspl{dm} where topics are fitted to have an influence on both word distributions and other metadata. \todo{har vi lyst til at skulle beskrive upstream og downstream for alle modeller? }
```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> \citet{author_topic_2012} describe the author-topic model where for each document $d$, they assign a vector of authors $a_d$ from a set of authors $A$, and for each word draw an author $x$ from this vector.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
\citet{author_topic_2012} describe the author-topic model where for each document $d$, they assign a vector of authors $a_d$ from a set of authors $A$, and for each word uniformly choose an author $x$ at random from this vector.
```

Author: an?

> The original plate notation for the Author-Topic model and our modifications can be seen in \ref{fig:metadata_lda}.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The original plate notation for the Author-Topic model can be seen in \autoref{fig:metadata_lda}.
```

> The original plate notation for the Author-Topic model and our modifications can be seen in \ref{fig:metadata_lda}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The original plate notation for the Author-Topic model and our modifications can be seen in \autoref{fig:metadata_lda}.
```

\begin{figure*}[ht]
	\centering
	\begin{subfigure}{0.275\textwidth}
		\centering
		\resizebox{\textwidth}{!}{%
			\input{figures/author_plate_original}
		}
		\caption{Author \gls{lda} from \cite{author_topic_2012}.}
		\label{fig:original_author_lda}
	\end{subfigure}
	\hspace{2em}
	\begin{subfigure}{0.275\textwidth}
		\centering
		\resizebox{\textwidth}{!}{%
			\input{figures/category_plate}
		}
		\caption{Category \gls{lda}.}
		\label{fig:category_lda}
	\end{subfigure}
	\hspace{2em}
	\begin{subfigure}{0.275\textwidth}
		\centering
		\resizebox{\textwidth}{!}{%
			\input{figures/author_plate}
		}
		\caption{Author \gls{lda}.}
		\label{fig:author_lda}
	\end{subfigure}	
	\caption{Plate notation for the metadata \gls{lda} models.}
	\label{fig:metadata_lda}
\end{figure*}

\subsection{\acrlong{pam}}\label{subsec:pachinko_prelim}

> Pachinko allocation\cite{li2006pachinko} is a topic model that generalizes \gls{lda}, making it possible to construct topic hierarchies based on any \gls{dag} structure.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The \acrfull{pam}~\cite{li2006pachinko} is a topic model that generalizes \gls{lda}, making it possible to construct topic hierarchies based on any \gls{dag} structure.
```

The model focuses on finding topics of different abstraction levels, as well as modeling the connections between these topics.

Each node in the \gls{dag} structure represents a topic in the pachinko allocation model. 
However, unlike \gls{lda} where topics are distributions over words, in \gls{pam} topics are distributions over words and/or other topics further down the hierarchy of the \gls{dag} structure.

> \citet{li2006pachinko} present the four-level \gls{pam}, which is a layered \gls{pam} meaning that the \gls{dag} structure is divided into layers, with every node in each layer fully connected to every node in the next layer of the hierarchy.

Author: we might have to go over a definition of layer sizes S_0 - S_X

> \citet{li2006pachinko} present the four-level \gls{pam}, which is a layered \gls{pam} meaning that the \gls{dag} structure is divided into layers, with every node in each layer fully connected to every node in the next layer of the hierarchy.

Reviewer 2: Er der en unlayered PAM?

Author: ja, PAM snakker om at man kan bruge en hver dag strukture, men de tester kun en layered struktur

> \citet{li2006pachinko} present the four-level \gls{pam}, which is a layered \gls{pam} meaning that the \gls{dag} structure is divided into layers, with every node in each layer fully connected to every node in the next layer of the hierarchy.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
\citet{li2006pachinko} present the four-level \gls{pam}, which is a layered \gls{pam} meaning that the \gls{dag} structure is divided into layers, with every node in a layer being fully connected to every node in the next layer of the hierarchy.
```

> The first layer consists of only the root node, a topic which all documents are part of.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The first layer consists of only the root node, a topic of which all documents are part of.
```

> The first layer consists of only the root node, a topic which all documents are part of.

Author: ```suggestion
It consists of $L$ layers of varying sizes $S_0, S_1, \dots, S_{L-1}$.
The first layer consists of only the root node, a topic which all documents are part of.
```

> The bottom layer consists of leaf nodes, which are the only nodes to contain distributions over words, and they have no other topics in their distribution.

Author: ```suggestion
The bottom layer consists of leaf nodes, which represent the words in the vocabulary.
```

> The bottom layer consists of leaf nodes, which are the only nodes to contain distributions over words, and they have no other topics in their distribution.

Reviewer 2: Har hvert leaf (ord) en distribution over andre ord?

Author: nej, hver leaf er bare et ord så vidt jeg forstår

The rest are middle layers representing topics of different abstraction levels.

The generative process for each document $d$ in \gls{pam} consists of the following steps, as described by \citet{li2006pachinko}:
\begin{enumerate}
	\item Sample $\theta_{t_1}^{(d)}, \theta_{t_2}^{(d)}, \dots, \theta_{t_s}^{(d)}$ from \vejleder{what is a g function?} $g_1(\alpha_1), g_2(\alpha_2), \dots, \newline g_s(\alpha_s)$, where $\theta_{t_i}^{(d)}$ is a multinomial distribution of topic $t_i$ over its children.
	\item For each word $w \in d$,
	\begin{itemize}

> 		\item Sample a topic path $\mathbf{z}_w$ of length $L_w:~< z_{w1}, z_{w2},\newline \dots, z_{wL_w} >$. $z_{w1}$ is always the root and $z_{w1}$ through $z_{wL_w}$ are topic nodes in $T$. $z_{wi}$\vejleder{DAG over topics?} is a child of $z_{w(i-1)}$ and it is sampled according to the multinomial distribution $\theta_{z_{wL_w}}^{(d)}$.

Reviewer 2: Der er space efter kolon, ved ikke om det kan fjernes nemt

		\item Sample word $w$ from $\theta_{z_{wL_w}}^{(d)}$.
	\end{itemize}

> \end{enumerate}

Reviewer 2: Er det hele up to date med plate notation?

Author: dette er nærmest ordret hvad de gør.

\vejleder{flyt denne paragraph op}
$T = {t_1, t_2, \dots, t_s}$ is the set of topics\vejleder{graf?} in the \gls{pam}. 
Each topic $t_i$ is associated with a Dirichlet distribution $g_i(\alpha_i)$ based on a vector $\alpha_i$ which has the same dimension as the number of children in $t_i$.
While it is possible to use different $\alpha$ values for each topic, as shown here, we found through experimentation that using the same $\alpha$ value for all layers still provided good results.

> The intuition behind this generative process is to create all possible layer (topic) sequences and combine these into a multinational distribution to draw a topic sequence from.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The intuition behind this generative process is to create all possible topic sequences and combine these into a multinomial distribution to draw a topic sequence from.
```

Author: ```suggestion
The intuition behind this generative process is to create all possible topic sequences and combine these into a multinomial distribution to draw a topic sequence from.
```

> The intuition behind this generative process is to create all possible layer (topic) sequences and combine these into a multinational distribution to draw a topic sequence from.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The intuition behind this generative process is to create all possible layer (topic) sequences and combine these into a multinomial distribution to draw a topic sequence from.
```

Otherwise, the Gibbs sampling is the same as with the \gls{lda} model.

> The plate notation from \citet{li2006pachinko} and our modification can be seen in \ref{fig:pachinko_plates}.

Author: ```suggestion
The plate notation from \citet{li2006pachinko} and our modification can be seen in \autoref{fig:pachinko_plates}.
```
